---
audio: true
lang: en
layout: post
title: Plan for 2025
---

* April 2025 National Self Study Exam. Pass 4 courses:
  * Computer Organization and Architecture
  * Linear Algebra
  * Computer Networks
  * Introduction to Law

* October 2025 National Self Study Exam. Pass 4 courses:
  * Microcomputer and Interface Technology
  * College Chinese
  * Mao Zedong Thought and Theory of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics
  * Basic Electronic Technology (III)

* Course Preparation. Prepare 2 courses:
  * Ideological and Moral Cultivation and Rule of Law
  * Introduction to Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era

* Blogging: Write 100 blog posts about self-study courses, AI research, and other interesting things.

* Exercise: Play basketball at least 2 times a week, especially from February to November when the weather is warmer.

* Employment: Apply for jobs and work.

* Diet: Eat more fruits instead of snacks.

* Health: Continue to reverse myopia and monitor it. The estimated achievement by the end of December 2025 is:
  * Left Eye: Myopia (-1.50), Astigmatism (-0.75)
  * Right Eye: Myopia (-3.25), Astigmatism (-1.00)

* Family: Help daughter watch more English animations by turning on the TV and using YouTube Kids.

* Travel: If there is spare cash, go to Hong Kong or Macao to visit English shops, universities, and libraries.

* Finances:
  * Pay the house mortgage monthly and the property management fee quarterly.
  * Invest regularly in Apple, Nvidia, TQQQ stock, and Bitcoin, no matter how small the amount, to learn investing.