---
layout: post
title: "Paul Graham's Influence on Me"
---

*This blog post was translated by Mistral*

---

I have been greatly influenced by Paul Graham over the past year. I learned a lot from his thoughts. Among them, he recommended an article to anyone he thought was ambitious – "You and Your Research" by the renowned computer scientist Richard Hamming. Hamming suggested that people should ask themselves three questions:

* What is the most important problem in your field of study?
* Are you working on that problem?
* Why not?m Hamming was asking three questions at Bell Labs at the time. He gave a speech on the topic, and the article was his speech draft. In theory, people at Bell Labs were all brilliant, working on important problems. However, this was not the case. Compared to Hamming, most of them were weak.

In the article, Hamming believed that to become an outstanding scientist, one must: 1) be deeply emotionally invested in the field of study; 2) put in the effort oneself and be fully committed, not finding excuses such as bad experiment conditions for not producing top-notch work. 3) ask oneself the three questions.

Paul Graham also mentioned this in many articles, focusing on the importance of concentrating and discarding minor distractions. Choose one or two truly important things and invest all your time into them, while neglecting other originally important things that rot away. For instance, the inner wiring of my laptop bag broke down, and I wanted to buy a new one online. But it was still usable, so I thought and decided not to buy a new one. Instead, I focused on programming and continued coding. At the end of the semester, the inner wiring was completely ruined, but it was still usable. I even grew to like it more, feeling it was sufficient. I saved the time I would have spent buying a new bag online. Another example, while studying in Beijing, I found that I had been washing too quickly before taking a shower. When I returned, my landlady scolded me for not washing for many days. However, in the southern winter, washing before taking a shower was a waste of time. You can save this time to do more meaningful things. Such small, unimportant tasks, if not done immediately, may disappear and not need to be done at all. Instead, the time spent on these tasks can be used to create greater value. Washing, this task, creates no value. I mean value in terms of producing products that people want and creating wealth for society.

Paul Graham runs a startup incubator and has written many articles about startups. In the article, he mentions that creating wealth fastest is through starting a business. Technology in IT significantly increases productivity. Furthermore, in a small startup team, each person's contribution is more easily measured. In contrast, it is more difficult to measure each person's contribution in large companies. Therefore, IT startups can make people wealthy faster. On the one hand, IT technology is productive and the market is good. On the other hand, in a small startup team, one works hard and, if successful, makes a large profit. However, the failure rate for startups is high, and the risk is great. So why take on this risk?

To survive, we must work to earn money. There is a well-known law. To earn one million, one must endure one million's worth of suffering. To earn ten million, one must endure ten million's worth of suffering. There are two ways to bear these sufferings to earn enough money for a lifetime: one is to work slowly in a low-pressure work environment for forty years; the other is to work quickly in a high-pressure work environment for five years. It seems we are still willing to take on this risk. After all, our lives are precious. However, we don't want to spend our lives working for bread and butter issues. Look at the adults, they have worked their entire lives for money. But I want to solve the money problem before the age of 30. With the remaining life, I want to savor life, like going to watch an NBA basketball game in the United States or watching a race:) .1. Starting a business is not about making a lot of money or becoming a millionaire. I don't want to buy expensive things or have a lot of material desires, but I want to become a person who doesn't have to worry about money issues. As Carmack said, when you're very rich, no company or person can control you, you'll have a great sense of freedom.

2. The influence of people in your social circle is quite significant. Find friends with similar goals. On Saturdays and Sundays, I find myself lying in bed, looking at my roommates all sleeping soundly. Hmm, I'll sleep a little longer too. In high school, I participated in the information technology competition and often paid attention to people like Chen LiJie and Lou TianCheng. I felt very weak compared to them and should learn from them. Then, in daily conversations, I often thought of saying something interesting to gain popularity, and paid more attention to the trivial chatter of my friends. Because my friends' chatter is mostly about cute things, the latest eating, drinking, and playing.

3. Paul Graham said that people in the startup world speak less but accomplish more than those outside. Going back to my hometown made me feel this way even more. People chat idly all day long, playing cards or mahjong. It seems that people really talk too much and do too little in their daily lives. In the countryside, what value can be created? What impact can it have on other parts of the world? If all the farmland in the village was mechanized, how many people could it support? But now, the people in the village spend their time and energy on things that could be done with machines, wasting their lives. There's no way around it, there are too many people, hindering the development of machines.

4. Ambition can be even greater. I never thought about starting a company before because it seemed so complicated and difficult, and my brain automatically filtered it out. After reading Paul Graham's article, I felt that starting a business was a necessary thing for survival. I want to create wealth to support myself, and the fastest way to create wealth is to work harder and faster to start a business. With this thought, I became more daring to consider this path. I don't think there's anything impossible about it. They can do it, so why can't I? I met a sophomore from my alma mater at the coffee shop last time, he made a website about college application choices, and he was preparing to register the company and operate it in September. He's so impressive! I read his posts, and he made a mobile app by burning the midnight oil. I couldn't help but think, isn't that better than me? He's so passionate and focused, while my productivity is so low. You really are that bad?!! You're just making excuses! Admit that you're not as good as others and not as capable, and then you have an excuse not to work hard and strive for it.
