---
layout: post
title: "The Captions of My Short Videos. - Updating"
---

### How To Learn Anything In a Year

How to learn anything in a year? Let's take English as an example. I spent one year learning English to achieve IELTS 6 score. Here is my way.

1. Trust yourself and believe in yourself. You are a genius. Everyone is a genius.

2. Find the real expert on the Internet. They share a lot, they have a lot of interesting ideas about the topic. Like the teacher Yin Wang.

4. Find all interesting materials on the Internet. Like Youtube, Bilibili, Tiktok, Douyin, Tencent Video, WeChat Channels. 

5. Start small. Watch short videos or long videos about the materials. You can watch anything as long as it has English.

6. 16 hours to learn. If can play mobile phone, then play it. If can't play, then listen by Bluetooth the earphone or speaker. Listen when driving, Listen when you are taking care of your baby. Listen when you are cooking. Listen until you fall asleep.

7. Go crazy. You will find that you just can live without them. You can't live without learning English all the time. You can't live without painting all the time. You can't live without coding all the time. You must ensure you have some English lectures to listen to as long as you are awake.

8. Know yourself and be focused. Let the lecture audios float around your ears, you will be automatically focusing time by time. When I drive for 2 hours, I must listen carefully for 1 hour. 

9. Take exams and then know your limit. Though my IELTS 6 score is good, I can apply to most of the undergrad or graduate programs in most of the universities, However, most of the top 50 need IELTS 6.5 or 7. So you still have spaces to grow. Be humble.

9. Polish your skills. Write down what you hear on the computer. Don't need to repeat one sentence again and again, and then finish one sentence again. Just listen normally, and write some words and some sentences. You write notes instead of whole articles. So it's easy. No transcribing software can work better than this way. And write down a lot of topics, and share them with your friends.

10. Keep finding ways to learn interesting. Like using DeepL or Grammarly to check your grammer. Like finding foreign friends to talk to. Like using English every day. 

11. The ultimate way is to think about it all the time. Think in English. Talk to yourself in English all the time. Write in English, Think in English, Listen in English, Read in English, and Speak in English. 

12. Everything can be learned in this way. Think in math, speak in Math, write in math, listen in math, read in math. Think about computer science, talk about computer science, write about computer science, and listen about computer science.