---     
layout: post     
title: "The Wonderful Things and Places I Used or Enjoyed"
---

### Things

House: 120 Square Meters House in Guangzhou

Cars: Neta V Chao 400 Lite 2022, Volkswagen Polo 2011, Chevrolet Sail 2011 

Mobile Phone: iPhone 14 Pro Max, iPhone X, iPhone 6, Xiao Mi 2S

Electronic Products: Mac Book Air 2022 M2, XGIMI Projector H6, Tmall Genie, Google Pixel 7, Baseus Products, TP-Link AX3000, Delixi Detectors, CURB Telescope, Apple TV, Fire TV, Kindle Scribe

Furnitures: Telescope, Digital Sound Level Meter from Smart Sensor, PH Detector PH8008 from Smart Sensor, IKEA Kivik Sofa, IKEA Utespelare Gaming Desk, IKEA Kallax Cabinet

Home Appliances: Haier Washer, Haier Dryer, Midea Air Conditioner, Media Refrigerator, Changdi Electric Oven

Other products: Sensology Formaldehyde Dectector, Chi Forest Drinks, Yineng Soda Water

Chinese Apps: WeChat, Douyin, QQ, Xiaohongshu, Zhihu, JD, QQ Music, Alipay, Pingan Haochezhu, Taobao, Gaode map, Bilibili, Meituan, Meituan Takeout, Weibo Intl, IKEA, Mi Home, China Merchants Bank, Pinduoduo, China Guangfa Bank, Alipay, Boss Zhipin, Personal Income Tax, Ziroom, DingDing, WeHotel, WeChat Input Method, Neta Car, WeChat Subscribe Helper

Global Apps: Messages, Photos, Youtube, Spotify, Capcut, Google Podcasts, Youtube Music, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok, LightCut, LinkedIn, HSBC HK, Binance, DJI, Microsoft To DO, Gmail, Whatsapp, Youtube Kids, ChatGPT, Facebook, , Reddit, Google Analytics, Messager, Tiger Trade, StichPics, GitHub, Wikipedia, Quora, Telegram, Nikkei, Uber, Snapchat, Agoda, Airbnb, Netflix, Slack, Edge, Grammarly, Amazon, Discord, Notion, Twitch, Kindle, Clubhouse, The Asahi Shimbun, Substack, LinkedIn, Youtube Music, Safari, Teams, Bigo Live, Telegram, Line, DJI Fly, DeepL, Zoom

### Places

USA: San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Jose, Bay Area, New York, Niagara Fall, Las Vegas, Sacramento, New Jersey, Seattle
China: Beijing, Xinjing, Chongqing, Tianjin, Yunnan, Lanzhou, Inner Mongolia, Guangdong, Hangzhou, Shanghai, Beihai, Xian, etc, a lot of places or cities besides Tibet or the northeast part of China
Special Administrative Regions of China: Hong Kong, Macao

### Thoughts

I am 28 years old now. My life experience is richful to the standard of the young people with the same age as me in China. Even in the global standard, my life experience should be a little richful. I am lucky to born in this Internet area. The news ideas, things and places are just come into my mind. Then one day, you want to have the things you don't have or go to the places you haven't been to. 

I have a 2 years old daughter now. Our couple will bring up her to explore this wonderful world. I dropped out from a top university from China to pursue the life I want to in 2014. Now 9 years passed. I bought above things or went to above places with the money I earned except the house. My wife and me both owned our house. And my parents gave us around half a million CNY for a down payment on the house. 

I learned a lot with using these things or staying in these places in my life. So I will encourage my daughter to use wonderful things human beings ever created, the natural places and buildings human beings created in this world. 

And I will pursue the bigger success to buy more things or enjoy more places too. I am greedy. But I really to want to have a life Alibaba founder Jack Ma or Amazon founder Jeff Bezos have. We just lived one time. We enjoy the world by our honest labor. It is totally ethical. 

And I created value for others to earn some money. I have worked as software engineer or as startup founder to make others life better. I have to admit it seems others do more for me than I do for others. 

And not only for that, I start to help human beings and next generations by my discovery. I have shared a lot about my language study method for friends around me. I shared the method to help me cure my myopia by the natural ways. Please check out my essay "How I Wear the Eyeglasses With 150 Degrees Less Than the Actual to Reduce Myopia".

### Third Language

Not having a basic fluency of the third lanaguage will limit my freedom to explore the world. So this is why I still learn Japanese for 4 hours in last months every day. And it is very easy for me to learn new langauge. I just do some leisure driving to listen to the sound of Japanese short videos. And I just listen to some nice Japanese music when I am coding or writing. Then when I am comfortable to listen to Japanese language, then I find that it is very easy to learn the written symbols. When I see the symbols, the sound just appear in my mind.

As there are many friends I have in China who are still not able to use English fluently, I want to give them confidence to master English. It is so easy. And once you master English, you have a new world. You will find that you want to go to English countries to work or study. It seems so easy though there are some administration process we need to walk through.

I have observed that in my 2 years global corporate life. When I learned a lot of their LinkedIn pages, a lot of my colleagues have switched countries to work and stay once or several times. And Some colleagues left current company to go to another countrie. It was just happening to my eyes.

And I start to buy more global products. I bought the Apple TV and Fire TV. I made my home more international. And I found that the digital lifes of the USA and the China are most richful in the world. So I really have an amzing digital life. 

So if I am ok to use Japanese fluently, it is just like I was born to Japan again, I couldn't imagine how my third life will be. I was born at 1995 in China. And I was born at 2016 in the USA. This was the first time I went there. And now I feel I was just like 2 yo Japanese kid. So I was born at 2023 in Japan.

I can feel that Japanese is much easier for me to learn than the English was to me. I kind of am able to learn new lanaguage every year. It just spends me 2 hours every day. It won't affect my daily work. Even sometimes it seems affect my daily work, but the brain become sharp while learning the new lanaguage, and I use that same brain to work, so I can feel that learning new lanaguages will help a lot my work.

I surely will teach all these to my daughter. I couldn't imagine how her life will be. The brain we have is so powerful. Maybe that my daughter won't like learning as me, so I write down this for other kids to see. The Y Combinator founder Paul Graham taught me a lot when I was in high school. And I became so strong after 10 years. Magic happens.

And I am teaching other kids or students that is younger than me. Surely, the magic will happen again.

