---
layout: post
title: "To the 10 yo's me, how to become an information genius"
---

I am now 28 years old. The 10 years old is like yesterday when I think about it. It was 2004. Around September, I came to Guangzhou, a big city in China from a village in Guangdong. I was born in 1995 January. So actually the title should be 9 years old. But somehow it is more convenient to say to the 10 yo. That year is special to me because I first met the computer in my father's working place. It was a tunnel monitor building. Inside it, some computers were showing videos about the traffic inside the tunnels captured by CCTV cameras. 

At that time, I couldn't imagine what it will be like when I grow up, when I became a father just like my father. I probably never think about this problem when I was that young. 18 years passed by, and now, it is 2023. And it will be history soon.

I of course have so many things that I want to share with the 10 yo's me. It is hard to make it with one article. Among this, I especially want to tell him about how to become an information genius.

During those years after I first met the computer, I of course like other young primary school students, liked to play games. And from 13 yo, in 2008, I started to participate in the National Olympiad in Informatics in Provinces. And after several years, in 2011, I made it to the second round to compete with around 360 top students in Guangdong Province, which has around 100 million population. I got no luck and even the third prize didn't give to me. The third prize can probably reach out to the students with the top 200 scores. So I was ranked about the place around 300.

And then I went to university and then dropped out, went to work in a startup, and then created my startup. And now I was working as a full stack engineer for a global big bank through the contract way.

In the last year passed by, I have had tens of moments where I am feeling like I am an information genius. When I want to confirm it with some of my colleagues, they said yeah, a bit, sometimes I have innovative ways to do things. When I answered some questions for our newly joined Chinese engineers, somehow, they complain a bit about how hard it is to work in a global company for the first time working this way. The language problem, the lot of access raising, the tons of information, the no mentor and few can help the problem, the busy boss problem. 

Actually, in my first time working at a Singaporean big bank in 2022, I was doing badly. And my boss was nice to help me change a group. In the second group, I started to shin. My new boss praised me as I was excellent among four or five Chinese engineers in the group. 

And now it is June 2023, and in the last half a year, I began to shin not only among Chinese teammates but among Hong Kong teammates. My boss said that he is happy to see that I am eager to learn. Though I still need to learn a lot from my boss and my genius teammates, let me say so to celebrate the small success.

I have hobbies to update my resume and the skills inside it. Let me show the skills I have using experience:

5 or more years of using experience: Chinese, English, Java, Spring, Algorithm, TDD, Linux, Windows, MacOS, Writing, Database, Redis
3 to 5 years of using experience: C++, iOS, Android, Vue, HTML, CSS, DevOps, Cantonese, Alibaba Cloud
1 to 3 years of using experience: Product Management, PHP, C++, Azure, Kubernetes, Docker, Python, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Kafka, Network, RTMP streaming, Pascal
less than 1 year of using experience: Hardware, Go, Ruby, Big Data, Machine Learning, Japanese, AWS, ChatGPT, Elasticsearch

Though experience here strictly is not the working experience. Probably it is better to name it as using experience. And as you can see here my focus is quite scattered. However, if we think carefully, they are all about some kind of information. Now I am mainly working as Java Engineer though my title is full stack engineer in the company. 

So how can I prove I am such an information genius? Besides, in my daily job, I am learning cloud computing, and in my leisure time, I am learning Neural Networks, as the article [I Finally Understand How Neural Network Works](./neural-network) shows. When I am relaxing or driving, I watch Japanese TikTok and Podcast as my article [Why and How I Learn Japanese](/japanese) explains. Zhiwei is running at full speed to reach the destination where he will be praised by the world that he is truly an information genius. 

I have failure feeling in my last 10 years. So now I feel that I start to become a little more successful. I was super happy at some moments recently. Sometimes, I couldn't believe that why I am now so sharp, why I can learn whatever I want to learn, why I can think out any ways to achieve what I want. 

After I closed my startup and stayed at home to learn, and sometimes work as a freelancer to make a living around the first half of covid year, I joined the two startup companies in Shenzhen and Guangzhou. I was fired by them. When I was fired by the first one after joining for two months, I complained that the boss was bad. After I was fired by the second one within only one week, I thought I was wrong, my previous boss was nice. 

I thought it was because I ran my startup for 3 years and stayed home as a freelancer for 1.5 years, that made me not prepared well for working for a company at that time. The gap between being a proud startup founder and a docile engineer is huge. I beat the walls hard and my head is bleeding. Though this happened, I am still a friend to my two former bosses who fired me. We still have some communication in the last year. 

The global companies helped me a lot. I have been working for two global banks till now. The people there give me a lot of confidence and tolerance. Though I am only requested by the company to go to the office for at least two days, I rented a parking lot for 1000 CNY under the office and drove to the office every working day. Because I like listening to Japanese TikTok on the way. My left hand will hold a small remote control and my right hand is on steers. I just listened to the short TikTok videos with my eyes looking in front. And sometimes, I used my left hand to click the button to scroll down the short videos on my iPhone. 

That's one of the moments when I am super happy. I laughed loud alone tens of times a day. I was recollecting the interesting words or ideas my colleagues speak out. I was thinking about how to brag about my genius ability next time on my social media. I was thinking about how to shock people with my achievements next time. I was thinking about how my colleagues said the harsh truth with the most politeness. To be honest, sorry for being too honest, and it may sound a little harsh, are becoming the common phrase among my colleagues. 

