---
audio: false
lang: en
layout: post
title: AI Thoughts
translated: false
---

- Satya Nadella mentioned Jevons paradox. It is worth to learn.

- Yin Wang: There is no "intelligence" in artificial intelligence, no "neural" in neural network, no "learning" in machine learning, and no "depth" in deep learning. There is no "depth" in deep learning. What really works in this field is called "calculus". So I prefer to call this field "differentiable computing", and the process of building models is called "differentiable programming".

- Yin Wang: Machine learning is really useful, one might even say beautiful theory, because it is simply calculus after a makeover! It is the old and great theory of Newton, Leibniz, in a simpler, elegant and powerful form. Machine learning is basically the use of calculus to derive and fit some functions, and deep learning is the fitting of more complex functions. 

- Currently, large language models can’t filter by file language like YAML or Python. However, a significant portion of information in the real world is organized this way. This means that we could train large language models using files.

- For training large language models, we could develop a system that finds exact matches. Perhaps we can combine the KMP (Knuth-Morris-Pratt) search algorithm with transformer architecture to enhance search capabilities.

- There are no technological secrets. Open source will reveal all the secrets that are closely guarded.

- AI will affect many tools, including indirect ones. People say they won't need Figma to draw prototypes, they will directly go to code. I think Postman will be similar; people will directly use Python or other scripts to call or test APIs.

- One reason we don't use Postman or Figma in the AI era is that their functionalities can't be generated through text. They also lack a command + K shortcut to trigger component replacement.

- User interfaces are becoming a barrier in the AI era. Why upgrade Postman to be AI-powered for testing applications when we can directly use Python's requests library or other programming languages to test code, as the latter will be powered by AI?

- Why upgrade Figma to be AI-powered for UI creation when code-based UI generation, enhanced by AI, offers a more direct and potentially powerful approach?

- LLMs will change text-related applications first, like Google, Search Engines, Text Editors and Writing Tools, Quizlet, Zendesk, DeepL, Medium, WordPress, Trello, Asana, Gmail, GitHub, Goodreads, Duolingo, and Feedly.

- Conversely, LLMs are unlikely to revolutionize technologies like Git, Linux, ffmpeg, mobile phones, hardware, browsers, operating systems, or voice and video calls. These technologies are code-centric, and their code is not easily generated by AI, unlike API testing tools such as Postman.

- [New Platforms Powered by AI Workflows](./ai-workflow-en)

- [The Next Direction of AI Code Editors](./ai-code-en)

- [How I Live Well in the AI and Blockchain Era](./ai-blockchain-en)